### 第一段
1. the  picture obbiously aims to emphasize that...
2. Unfolded before us is such a picture that is simply drawn yet profoundly meaningful
3. It is this issue that has aroused growing concern among the public.  

### 第二段：原因/危害/意义
#### 原因：
To my best knowledge, a variety of factors are responsible for this phenomenon. To begin with, ...①.... Morevoer, the local government ...②... . Last but not least,...
- ①food productors try every means to make huge profits, regardless of the potential danger brought by the food they make.
- ②have not done enough to protect/curb ...

#### 意义：
To my best knowledge, we can easily identify the advantages of protecting ... as follows. To begin with, ...

### 第三段
To my best understanding, a veriety of approaches can be figured out to tackle the problem. In the first place, the government is supposed to enforce the relative laws more strictly to... . In the second, the media need to enhance public awareness in historied relic protection. Only by enforcing these proposed measures, can we enventually resolve the problem, effectively and efficiently.

### 利弊型：
#### 第三段：
For all the advantages mentioned above, ...is by no means without its limiations, as listed below.  
#### 第四段：
To my best understanding, it is advisable that we take rational attitude towards this phenomenon. On the one hand, ... has brought us some benefits. On the other hand, it has resulted in some troubles. Considering all the points discussed above, it is preferable that we make full use of the advantadges and meanwhile minimize the negative effects(strike a proper balance between A and B). Just as what the cartoon connotes, we may be connected by the web, but we are not supposed to be confined with in it.

## 意义分析型：  
### 第一段：  
It is never too significant to ... in our lives.  
### 第二段：  
To my best knowledge, we can easily identify the significance of... from the following perspectives. To begin with, it will enable people to make sustainable achievements. Take Edison as an example. He ......,  
If people are not ...  
Furthermore, ... will help people to win others' trust especially when there is a need or chance for cooperation, because... always gives them confidence to win out. If people do not have this quality, others would hardly venture to work with them.  
### 第三段
From what has discussed above, we may safely draw the conclusion that, with this virtue, we will have better chances to fulfil our potential, by a large margin., without it, we are more likely to lose, be it in our work or life. It is highly recommanded that we make great efforts to cultivate this virtue in our lives. ... is no less valuable than... 
